HEY GEMINI BE MY BEST BACKEND CODING ASSISSTANT AND REVIEW CAREFULLY THE BELOW DETAILS AND SUMMARISE DONT START CODING UNTIL I SAY IN THE NEXT CHAT OKAY... 

THIS IS FOR MY SIH HACKATHON 



Problem Statement ID25026

Problem Statement TitleDevelop API code to integrate NAMASTE and or the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) via the Traditional Medicine Module 2 (TM2) into existing EMR systems that comply with Electronic Health Record (EHR) Standards for India.

DescriptionBackground



India’s Ayush sector is rapidly transitioning from paper-based records to interoperable digital health systems. Central to this transformation are two key coding systems: the National AYUSH Morbidity & Standardized Terminologies Electronic (NAMASTE) codes, which provide over 4,500 standardized terms for Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani disorders, WHO Standardised International Terminologies for Ayurveda and the WHO’s ICD-11, Chapter – 26, Traditional Medicine Module 2 (TM2), which integrates 529 disorder categories and 196 pattern codes into the global ICD framework. Harmonising these vocabularies within Electronic Medical Record (EMR) platforms not only enables accurate clinical documentation and decision support but also ensures compliance with India’s 2016 EHR Standards—mandating FHIR R4 APIs, SNOMED CT and LOINC semantics, ISO 22600 access control, ABHA-linked OAuth 2.0 authentication, and robust audit trails for consent and versioning.



To operationalize this dual-coding approach, EMR vendors must implement a lightweight terminology micro-service that ingests NAMASTE CSV and synchronises with the WHO-11 ICD-API (Including Biomedicine and TM2). Within the EMR user interface, diagnosis entries should support auto-complete widgets that return both NAMASTE and ICD-11 (TM2 and Biomedicine) codes, comply with the Coding rules of ICD-11 framework and store them together in the patient’s Problem List resource. This integration empowers clinicians to combine traditional and biomedical insights, facilitates Ayush insurance claims under global ICD-11 coding rules, and provides the Ministry of Ayush with real-time morbidity analytics aligned with national and international reporting standards.



Description



Design and prototype an API integration that brings India’s NAMASTE terminologies, WHO Standardised International terminology and the WHO ICD-11 (Traditional Medicine Module 2 (TM2) & Biomedicine) into a FHIR-compliant Electronic Medical Record (EMR) system. Your goal is to enable clinicians to record traditional medicine diagnoses (Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani) using NAMASTE codes, then automatically map them to global ICD-11 (TM2 and Biomedicine) identifiers—supporting dual/double-coding (One code denoting Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani (TM) and another denoting Biomedicine) for interoperability, analytics and insurance claims.



Your deliverable is a lightweight micro-service or FHIR terminology plugin offering:

• A FHIR compliant resource for NAMASTE codes linking to WHO International Terminologies of Ayurveda, ICD-11 (TM2 and Biomedicine) and compliant with ICD-11 Coding rules.

• A REST endpoint for auto-complete value-set lookup.

• A translation operation converting NAMASTE ↔ TM2 codes.

• An encounter upload endpoint that ingests FHIR Bundles with both code systems.

• OAuth 2.0–secured access using ABHA tokens and audit-ready metadata.



Teams should demonstrate



1. Ingesting the NAMASTE CSV export and generating FHIR CodeSystem + ConceptMap.

2. Fetching TM2, Biomedicine updates from the WHO ICD-API and merging into your service.

3. A simple web or CLI interface to search NAMASTE terms, WHO International Terminologies of Ayurveda, see mapped TM2 codes, and construct a FHIR ProblemList entry.

4. Version tracking and consent metadata to satisfy India’s 2016 EHR Standards (FHIR R4, ISO 22600, SNOMED-CT/LOINC semantics).



Expected Solution



A lightweight, FHIR R4–compliant terminology micro-service—built to India’s 2016 EHR Standards—that exposes a NAMASTE CodeSystem, WHO International Terminologies of Ayurveda, an ICD-11 TM2, Biomedicine ConceptMap, an auto-complete value-set lookup endpoint, a NAMASTE↔TM2 translate operation; ICD-11 Biomedicine look up and a secure FHIR Bundle upload interface (for enabling double coding).

OrganizationMinistry of AyushDepartmentAll India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA)CategorySoftwareThemeMedTech / BioTech / HealthTech























okay i had a plan, my api dvelopment plan has the following steps..



1. Create the virtual environment, setup the backend file structure according to the current modern standards by having proper file structure setup



2. Create a script which processes each xls sheet one at a time, the of this script is to feed in all the data available in each xls sheet to gemini llm which will be integrated, the gemini llm will get back a response containing the most likely icd name, icd description, confidence score for the ayurveda concept, after lets say the ayurveda xls sheet is processed, the script does the same for sidhha , unani xls sheets too and store the results from the gemini api in a file called suggested mappings.csv the format of this file is 

source_system,source_code,source_term,suggested_icd_name,confidence_score,justification

Ayurveda,AYU,vyAdhi-viniScayaH,Diagnosis,50%,"""viniScayaH"" implies ascertainment or determination, and in the context of ""vyAdhi"" (disease), it suggests the process of diagnosis. Lack of a detailed description limits specificity."

Ayurveda,DIS,vikAraH,"Disorder, unspecified",50%,"""Vikara"" broadly translates to disorder or abnormality, lacking specific details for a more precise mapping.  Low confidence due to the extremely general nature of the term."

Ayurveda,A,doShavaiShamyam,Other specified disorders of Ayurvedic conceptual framework,50%,"Lack of a description for doShavaiShamyam necessitates a broad mapping within the Ayurvedic section of ICD-11. ""vaiShamyam"" suggests imbalance, and ""doSha"" relates to the three doshas in Ayurveda, making this the most appropriate general category in absence of more specific information."

Ayurveda,AA,vAtavyAdhiH,GA24.9  Other specified rheumatic disorders,50%,"Vata dosha imbalance in Ayurveda is frequently associated with musculoskeletal and neurological symptoms, overlapping with some rheumatic disorders. Lacking a specific description, this is a broad but possible mapping, reflecting low confidence."

Ayurveda,AAA,doShAvasthA (vAta),"Traditional medicine condition, unspecified",50%,"Without a description, ""doShAvasthA (vAta)"" lacks specific clinical details, making precise ICD-11 mapping impossible.  This generic term reflects the unknown nature of the condition within a traditional medicine framework."

Ayurveda,SR11 (AAA-1),vAtasa~jcayaH,Functional abdominal bloating,60%,"Vata accumulation causing abdominal fullness and aversion to cold aligns reasonably with symptoms of functional bloating, although the Ayurvedic concept is broader.  Direct mapping is difficult due to the different etiological frameworks."



like that....



3. Now after the suggested mappings is generated, another script called admin panel suggestion script will generate another csv file called admin panel suggested mappings in which it takes the info from the suggested mappings csv file to map common icd diseases with their equivalent system either ayurveda, siddha, unani 

example is if migrane had ayurveda term ,siddha term, unani term , in the suggestion map csv file, after the adamin panel suggestion script runs the csv file will have the following for migraine 



migraine  ayurveda term/with all other type of names for that specific disease available from the ayurveda xls sheet, description and confidence score, siddha term/with tamil name from xls sheet , description and confidence score, unani term/with arabic term from xls sheet mapped as a single row...



4. After this admin panel suggestion map is generated, we move on to create 

the admin panel, the admin panel is a powerful curator it has three workspaces which can be navigated between in each other through a simple navbar, the workspaces are called newly generated mappings and the second interface is called the verified/approved mappings, THIRD WORKSPACE is called rejected mappings  other additional elements are the number of total newly generated mappings which needs approval, the no. of mappings approved, the no. of mappings disapproved and waiting confirmation or further analysis, the data for this admin panel comes from the admin panel suggested mappings, it ll be shown in the form of a table in new mappings workspace with each grid element divided into cells, so that a doctor expert can verify the mappings, for ayurveda, siddha, unani and can approve or disagree with specific cells for example for migrane the doctor sees the ayurveda, siddha, unani terms in the table the doctor expert then sees the confidence scores and verifies, the doctor expert sees that ayurveda and siddha mapping is correct but the unani mapping is incorrect so the doctor expert goes to approve the indiviual mapping for ayurveda and siddha cells but disapproves the unani cell as he knows its not the correct mapping, this cell itself will be then pushed to the rejected mapping from where the the experts can then map it to the correct concept... Further we can add a analytics workspace too along with the three workspaces, the verified/approved  mappings from the new mappings will be sent to the verified/approved mappings where the doctor can still disapprove a mapping based on cell system as we discussed... Finally what we end up with is a rich database with verified mappings between ayurveda, siddha, unani, icd systems. The verified database is called verified_after_admin_database. 


5. This verified database is then saved into our postgre sql database, now when the doctor who is using our api, when they type the diagnosis the api s lookup endpoint gets the disease from the verified postgre database. This is sent as search suggestion to the doctor who clicks on the right diagnosis, once the doctor clicks the diagnosis in the search bar, the disease s icd name is then queued to who api through our translate endpoint which gives back the icd 11 code and tm2 code with the description and stuff this new stuff will be then stored to the verified database which has coloumn headers that is left empty to store this new who data, this data will be stored so that if the doctor types the diagnosis once again we dont have to queue the who api again for the same query... 
the json response for a query will be like 
{
ayurveda name
ayurveda code 
ayurveda description 
and other ayurveda related info from the ayurveda xls sheet

siddha name
siddha code 
siddha description 
and other siddha related info from the siidha xls sheet

unani name
unani code 
unani description 
and other unani related info from the unani xls sheet

icd name
icd code 
icd description 
and other icd related relevant info from the who api

tm2 name
tm2 code 
tm2 description 
and other tm2 related relevant info from the who api
}


6. Our api is very robust due to this workflow and framework, since lets say someone comes with a database saying they have already mapped the dieases, we cann add their database to our workflow before the admin panel suggestion script is generated to verify the ai generated suggested mappings and after that the admin panel receives this, so whatever happens if a new database comes we add them as one of our verification layer....

7. I want to make the response time of the api fast enough so i dont where currently but somewhere i am hoping we integrating a vector databse concept so that response times of the api is in milliseconds...

8. Also i want this api ready for production level, so i want to setup the docker container production level environment, environment variables, and proper api docs before the coding starts...




Prompt for a New Chat: NAMASTE to ICD-11 Micro-service Development

I am starting a new project to build a full-stack, production-level micro-service for the SIH hackathon (Problem Statement ID25026). My goal is to create an API that maps diseases from traditional Indian medicine systems (Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani) to the WHO's ICD-11 and TM2 terminologies.

The project will have two main components:

A Python-based backend API for all data processing, mapping, and serving.

An Angular-based front-end "Admin Panel" for human-in-the-loop curation of mappings.

I have three CSV files containing the source data for each traditional system:

NATIONAL AYURVEDA MORBIDITY CODES.xls - NATIONAL-AYURVEDA-MORBIDITY-COD.csv

NATIONAL SIDDHA MORBIDITY CODES.xls - NATIONAL-SIDDHA-MORBIDITY-CODES.csv

NATIONAL UNANI MORBIDITY CODES.xls - NATIONAL-UNANI-MORBIDITY-CODES.csv

Please act as my senior engineering partner and guide me through the development process. Here is the detailed workflow I have planned. I need you to understand it and help me execute it.

Project Workflow and Architecture
1. Initial Setup and Data Ingestion

Create a virtual environment for the Python backend.

Establish a clean file structure for a modern backend application.

Develop an ingestion script (ingestion_script.py) that processes the three provided CSV files. The script must parse each file and use the Gemini API to generate initial suggested mappings. The Gemini prompt should be designed to receive a traditional term and a description, then respond with the most likely ICD-11 name, ICD-11 description, a confidence score, and a justification.

Store the LLM's output in a file named suggested_mappings.csv with the following columns: source_system, source_code, source_term, suggested_icd_name, confidence_score, justification.

2. Admin Panel Suggestion Generation

Create a script (admin_panel_suggestion.py) that processes suggested_mappings.csv.

This script's purpose is to group related mappings by ICD-11 disease name. For example, if "Migraine" has suggested mappings from Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani, the script should aggregate these into a single row.

The output of this script will be a new CSV file named admin_panel_suggested_mappings.csv. Each row will represent a single ICD-11 concept and will contain a column for each traditional system (ayurveda_term, siddha_term, unani_term, etc.), along with their confidence scores and descriptions.

3. Admin Panel UI and Curation Logic

Develop a front-end Admin Panel using html css and js in one idex.html file containing all logic properly commented 

The Admin Panel will have three primary workspaces accessible via a simple navbar: Newly Generated Mappings, Verified/Approved Mappings, and Rejected Mappings.

The Newly Generated Mappings workspace will display the data from admin_panel_suggested_mappings.csv in a tabular format. .

Domain experts (doctors) will be able to review each row and approve or reject mappings at a granular, cell-by-cell level. An individual cell for a specific system (e.g., the Unani term for "Migraine") can be rejected, while the others are approved.

Approved mappings will be moved to the Verified/Approved Mappings workspace. Rejected mappings will be moved to the Rejected Mappings workspace for later review.

The front end will display key metrics: total mappings needing approval, approved mappings, and rejected mappings.

4. Production-Level API and Database

The verified mappings will be stored in a PostgreSQL database. The table that holds this final, trusted data will be named verified_after_admin_database.

The backend API will serve the following endpoints:

Lookup Endpoint: A fast, production-ready endpoint for the doctor's EMR system. When a doctor types a query, this endpoint will search the verified_after_admin_database.

Translate Endpoint: When a doctor selects a diagnosis, this endpoint will check the verified_after_admin_database. If the ICD-11 code is already present, it will be returned. If not, the API will queue a request to the WHO-11 ICD-API to fetch the code, and then store it in verified_after_admin_database for future use. This ensures a one-time API call to the WHO for each new mapping.

5. Performance and Deployment

To ensure lightning-fast response times (in milliseconds), I want to integrate a vector database (e.g., pgvector extension for PostgreSQL). I will use it for semantic search to provide intelligent suggestions in the lookup endpoint.

The entire application (backend API, database, and front end) will be containerized using Docker for a production-level deployment environment. All environment variables and API documentation will be set up properly.




SIH Hackathon: NAMASTE to ICD-11 API Micro-service
This document outlines the phased development plan for a full-stack, production-level micro-service to address Problem Statement ID25026.

Phase 1: Foundational Setup
[ ] Initialize Python virtual environment.

[ ] Setup backend project structure.

[ ] Create ingestion_script.py to process source data.

[ ] Integrate Gemini API for initial mapping suggestions.

[ ] Generate suggested_mappings.csv.

Phase 2: Curation and Verification
[ ] Create admin_panel_suggestion.py to group mappings by ICD concept.

[ ] Generate admin_panel_suggested_mappings.csv.

[ ] Develop basic html,css, js in one spa front-end for the Admin Panel.

[ ] Implement Newly Generated Mappings workspace.

[ ] Implement Verified/Approved Mappings workspace.

[ ] Implement Rejected Mappings workspace.

[ ] Set up user roles for expert curation.

Phase 3: Database and API Development
[ ] Set up PostgreSQL database.

[ ] Define verified_after_admin_database table schema.

[ ] Develop backend API endpoints:

[ ] Lookup endpoint for fast, semantic search.

[ ] Translate endpoint for fetching and caching WHO-11 ICD-API data.

[ ] Integrate vector database (pgvector) for improved search performance.

Phase 4: Production Readiness
[ ] Dockerize the entire application stack.

[ ] Define production environment variables.

[ ] Create comprehensive API documentation.

Source Data Files
NATIONAL AYURVEDA MORBIDITY CODES.xls - NATIONAL-AYURVEDA-MORBIDITY-COD.csv

NATIONAL SIDDHA MORBIDITY CODES.xls - NATIONAL-SIDDHA-MORBIDITY-CODES.csv

NATIONAL UNANI MORBIDITY CODES.xls - NATIONAL-UNANI-MORBIDITY-CODES.csv

Final Output
A robust API serving verified mappings between NAMASTE and ICD-11.

An robust html,css,js frontend for continuous data curation.

A Docker-based production environment for scalable deployment.




if you understood everything lay down a file structure and also explain what each file will do in helping in setting up the final projec

